We begin a new sermon series this year called Manifest.
And maybe you've heard about this trend that's going around.
If you've gone on social media lately or you've heard popular vernacular, maybe you've heard Talk Radio or maybe you've read a book on self-help or something.
Everywhere it says Manifest This or Manifest It.
or simply manifest.
When we put out the sermon series, I got a message from one of my colleagues that said, you don't step into that manifest stuff as if it is not from God.
Except epiphany through transfiguration.
That's the season that we're in.
We'll talk a little bit more about that.
It's all about watching the manifestation of the promises of God come through to fruition.
So we're going to manifest some stuff early this year.
Amen?
We're going to watch what we say because life and death is in the power of the tongue.
It's in proverbs.
Have you seen it lately?
Life and death lies in the power of your tongue.
Blessing and curse falls in what you say and how you follow that up with your behavior because we do what we say most of the time.
But we do what's in us all the time.
Our behavior reflects what we are manifesting in our souls.
And so we're going to spend some time this January through mid-February exploring what it really means to manifest something.
And what it means that God manifests the promises that God made to us through this season, through epiphany, the baptism of the Lord, and all the way to transfiguration.
Manifesting is a spiritual and a cultural phenomenon that teaches us that our thoughts create reality.
But you can't just say you want something to happen, or say you want some change in your life, or say, well God said it so it is.
God gives us the ability to move our feet, to use our hands, and to act our way into the things that we are trying to manifest.
Amen?
How many of you know about Urban Dictionary?
UrbanDictionary.com is one of my favorite places to look up different uses of words because in this generation and previous generations, everything means something different.
I love to hear from you after worship what you heard in the sermon because everybody hears something different.
And a lot of times I say, did I say that?
because we speak from different places in our lives and we hear from different places in our lives and the Holy Spirit allows us to hear what we need so that we can grow closer to God, amen?
Urban Dictionary explains that to manifest is to make something happen, to make something real, to wish for something,
and watch it end up happening.
In the Bible, Proverbs 18-21 reminds us that death and life are in the power of the tongue, but it doesn't stop there.
It says, those who love it will eat its fruit.
Those who love death will eat the fruit of death.
And those who love life will eat the fruit of life.
And it manifests
which fruit we eat by what we say and what we do.
So the Lord manifests some things when God reveals to us Jesus.
We
God manifests light, God manifests the belovedness, God manifests calling, God manifests justice, God manifests healing, God manifests mission and God manifests glory.
So I hope you'll walk with me through this each week.
You're not going to want to miss one part.
So if you can't be here or you can't be online one Sunday, go and pick it up from the podcast so you can listen while you're driving to work or working out, pick it up from YouTube or Facebook or the clips from Instagram so that you don't miss any part of the series because each week builds on the next.
And don't forget to pick up the group, the small girl group and devotional guides so that you are practicing God's manifestation each and every day.
I'm going to ask you about it.
I want to see your notes so that we're not just talking about this thing, but so that we are experiencing life transformation.
together.
If we are the same church on December 31st, 2026, that we are on January 1st, 2026, we've missed it.
Because God is all about growth.
God is about transformation.
You cannot encounter God.
and be the same.
So let us go to the scripture this Epiphany Sunday.
We told the children that Epiphany means what?
It means light.
Right?
Everybody have their light beams this morning?
Epiphany means light and that the light has come.
It's like a light bulb has gone off in our heads.
A light bulb has gone off in our minds.
We now know something that we didn't know before.
So here are now these words from Isaiah chapter 60 verses one through six.
Isaiah 61 through six.
Arise, shine, for your light has come.
And the glory of the Lord has risen upon you, for darkness shall cover the earth and thick darkness the peoples.
But the Lord will arise upon you and his glory will appear over you.
Nations shall come to your light and kings to the brightness of your dawn.
Lift up your eyes and look around.
They all gather together.
They come to you.
Your son shall come from far away and your daughter shall be carried in their nurses arms.
Then you shall see and be radiant.
Your heart shall thrill and rejoice because the abundance of the sea shall be brought to you.
The wealth of the nations shall come to you.
A multitude of camels shall cover you.
The young camels of Midian and Ephah, all those from Sheba shall come.
They shall bring gold and frankincense and shall proclaim the praise of the Lord.
And we're going to go to seven because it completes this.
All the flocks of Qadar shall be gathered to you.
The rams of Nebios shall minister to you and they shall be acceptable on my altar and I will glorify my glorious house.
Stand now for the reading of the gospel, Matthew chapter 20, chapter two, verses one through 12.
I'm reading from the new revised standard version and the text is on the screen.
In the time of King Herod, after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, Magi from the east came to Jerusalem, asking, where is the child who has been born King of the Jews?
For we observed his star in the east and have come to pay him homage.
When King Herod heard this, he was frightened and all Jerusalem with him and calling together all the chief priests and scribes of the people he inquired of them where the Messiah was to be born.
They told him in Bethlehem of Judea, for so it has been written by the prophet.
And you Bethlehem in the land of Judah are by no means least among the rulers of Judah.
For you shall come a ruler who is shepherd my people Israel.
Then Herod secretly called for the Magi and learned from them the exact time when the star had appeared.
Then he sent them to Bethlehem and said, go and search diligently for the child.
And when you have found him, bring me word so that I may also go and pay him homage.
When they have heard the king, they set out and there ahead of them went the star that they had seen in the east until it stopped over the place where the child was.
When they saw that the star had stopped, they were overwhelmed with joy.
On entering the house, they saw the child with Mary his mother, and they knelt down and paid him homage.
Then, opening their treasure chest, they offered him gifts of gold.
Freakincense and myrrh.
And having been warmed in a dream, not to return to Herod, they left for their own country by another road.
This is the word of God for the people of God.
Thanks be to God.
You may be seated.
Light of the world, you step down into darkness, opened our eyes.
and let us see.
Open our eyes some more, oh God.
Open our eyes afresh and anew because we've come seeking your light.
Speak, Lord, for your servants are listening.
In Jesus' name we pray.
Amen.
Light is a funny thing.
Light can be helpful.
And sometimes there can be so much light that you can't see what's in front of you.
This morning I was coming down the expressway in Georgia State Patrol, which usually sits outside the perimeter, had taken over inside the perimeter.
People were slamming on their brakes, left and right, and I'm like, y'all, they already see you.
Just take your foot off the gas a little bit.
The sirens are coming.
You see blue lights and yellow lights and red lights on both sides of the expressway.
And that's the kind of light you don't want to see.
And then we came around the curb and the sun was shining so brightly that people slammed on their brakes again because they couldn't see the car in front of them.
We avoid that kind of light.
We avoid the kind of light that is beyond what we control.
We avoid the kind of light that is so bright that we can't see what's in front of us.
But what if I say, what if I encourage you not to slam on the brakes, but just to slow down a little bit?
Just take your foot off the gas a little bit.
Because if you slam on the brakes, the person behind you has to slam on the brakes and you might cause a chain reaction.
You know?
One, two, three.
Bam, bam, bam.
But in life with God, sometimes God shines so brightly that we have to slow down or stop.
God is purposely getting our attention so that we will pay attention to what God is doing.
The blue lights behind you are an attention giver.
Stop.
Pull over.
You have broken the law.
The sun shining in your face is an attention to be careful, slow down, make sure you know where you're going.
Epiphany Sunday is among one of my favorite Sundays of the year, even though Epiphany is still two days away, we're celebrating it this Sunday because if we miss Epiphany, we've missed the Christmas story.
You know it's still Christmas, right?
It's the 10th day of Christmas until Epiphany.
That's why all the decorations are still up.
Epiphany is the day that we take them down.
Epiphany is the day that we actually know that Jesus is here because we didn't have the book that first Christmas.
Did you know that in other cultures, the exchanging of gifts
The day that we celebrate Christmas is actually celebrated on epiphany.
And it makes more sense to do it that way because we didn't even know that Jesus was born until epiphany.
Other traditions celebrate and keep their decorations up till Christmas must.
I don't know how to say that word.
It's a thing.
Candle must.
And they do it to keep reminding us that we don't do life in darkness.
We are people of light.
And the whole point of Christmas is to reignite, to become more curious about the light of God in our lives.
I struggle with migraines and I have for years and years and years and I had a migraine that was so bad it lasted for several, several days.
So I finally just called my doctor and said, nothing's working.
What do I do?
And she said, well, how long have you been in the bed?
I was like three, three, three days.
That's about three days.
She said, has it been dark the whole time?
Like pretty much.
She said, why don't you try this?
Turn the light on.
Get out of the bed.
Go outside.
Breathe in some fresh air.
Let's see if we can't remind your body that it loves light.
And maybe just maybe we can reset.
And that migraine will start to fade.
That sounded like the most ridiculous advice I'd ever heard.
Do you know what light feels like when you have a migraine?
It's torture.
All you want to do when there's a migraine is keep your eyes closed.
You can't move.
You can't see.
You don't want to hear anything.
You don't want to hear anybody.
All you want to do is be in the dark with your eyes closed.
And she says, well, why don't you try getting up and going into the light?
What?
You know, it worked.
I had done all the things that I was supposed to do.
I had taken all the meds that I had, I had done all my breathing exercises, all the things that they taught me to do, but it was like my body got stuck in darkness.
And while it was stuck in darkness, it could not heal itself.
It was stuck in a migraine pattern because I kept feeding it darkness.
It was stuck in pain because I didn't offer it anything to give it relief.
My body learned that darkness is time to shut down and stay exactly as we are.
But after several days, it just does that over and over again, and it won't release the migraine because you need light.
You were created in light.
You were created for light.
You are light.
Did it hurt?
Yes.
Did it work?
The prophet Isaiah says to a people who are buried in darkness.
They're in war.
They're in transition.
This is third Isaiah.
This is after the exile.
They have come back to Jerusalem and nothing is how they left it.
The church is gone.
Temple is gone.
The community is gone.
They're trying to find a way to rebuild.
Their family connections have been ruined.
Nothing is the way that they thought it was going to be.
They thought after exile that things would get easier, that things would get better.
They thought that by going home from a
strange land, they would renew their connection to each other and they would feel like God was walking with them and talking with them.
But instead, things were harder when they came home than while they were in exile.
And Isaiah says to the people, God says to tell you,
Get up!
Maya, they're just staring at me.
I guess that's how Isaiah felt.
He says to the people who are wallowing in darkness, he says, get up and shine!
Turn on your lights!
Arise and shine!
The light has come!
He says, yes, darkness has covered the earth.
And it shall cover the earth.
In this life there will be trouble.
In this life there will be darkness.
In this life there will be hard things.
In this life there will be bad days.
In this life darkness shall cover the earth.
Thick darkness over the people.
But the Lord will arise upon you.
The Lord will shine on you.
The glory of the Lord will appear over you.
And you shall come
to your light.
What does that have to do with me, preacher?
If you want to manifest something different in your life in 2026, you're gonna have to do something different.
If you want that relationship to get better, you're gonna have to treat it differently.
If you want to be in a different place financially, you're gonna have to sit down and make a budget and stick to it.
If you want God to be as close to you as your next breath, you're gonna have to work for it.
Transformation is not easy.
Do you know how many chrysalis and caterpillars die before they become butterflies?
Just because they exist is not a foregone conclusion that they're going to make it to being a butterfly.
They literally come almost to the point of death, and some of them do die and never make it to the butterfly stage.
That's the process of transformation.
You have to be willing to dig deep, to dig down, to get through the hard stuff.
The text says lift up your eyes and look around.
We're so busy this, this.
I gotta do this.
Me, me, me, me, me.
My, my, my, my, my.
This is the checklist.
What if you just looked up?
Father, I stretch my hands to thee.
There is no other help I know.
Lord, I need something to be different in my life.
I'm sick and tired of walking around in darkness.
Help me to arise and shine.
You said it.
You did it.
Make it so in my life.
Show me what to do.
So that light
is made manifest in my life.
You can be a woe as me person.
That's fine.
It's your choice.
But the whole point of epiphany is for you to be able to say if it had not been for the Lord on my side, where would I be?
The whole point of epiphany is to say, I used to be mean.
I used to be sad.
I used to be drowning in darkness.
I used to be, used to be, used to be, but I met the Lord and the Lord.
got me up and turned the lights on miss ruby and i got a breath of fresh air and the light shined and the pain left and god showed me the way hallelujah hallelujah hallelujah
You can keep on worrying about what everybody else is doing, or you can manifest light in your life.
Because you know what?
The other thing about light is it's contagious.
Because when you have light, somebody else wants to know about that light, right?
You walk around with this thing.
People are going to look at you crazy at first, but they're going to say, where you get that from?
Tell me about the light.
Show me where I can get some light.
Show me how the light works.
Show me.
In the time of King Herod after Jesus was born in Bethlehem, the Magi came to
from the east to Jerusalem.
Now, when you read the Bible this year, I want you to do me a favor.
I want you to read what is actually there.
Not what you heard was there.
See, we sang the song Three Kings, We Three Kings this morning, which is one of my favorite songs we never sing in church.
And we sang We Three Kings this morning,
But it's not quite the biblical story.
And we do that to the scripture a lot in church.
We use what I call our theological imaginations to fill in the gaps and make them more interesting or more palatable or work better for the Christmas play.
And Ms. Laverne, if you've ever been in a Bible study with me, you will hear me say, is that there?
Where did that come from, Lindsey?
Who told you that?
What Sunday school teacher said that?
And this story is one of those places where we have breathed in so many other narratives that we don't actually know what it says.
It says that there were magi.
What are magi?
No, they're magicians.
People that the Israelites have been told never to listen to.
Diviners.
Magi from the east came to Jerusalem and asked, where is the child who has been born king of the Jews?
For we observed his star in the east.
We have come to pay homage.
Other traditions, other translations say to worship him.
And when King Herod heard this, he was frightened.
And all Jerusalem with him and calling together the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of the magi where the Messiah was to be born.
When I was growing up, I thought this story was so fun.
Ooh, we three kings of Orient are, bearing gifts we churros afar.
Hills and mountains, some are following yonder star.
Oh, stars of wonder, stars of night.
Is that there?
People in power fear light.
It's right here.
It's not me.
It's the text.
When King Herod heard this, he was frightened and all Jerusalem with him.
People in power fear light because light overwhelms power.
Light is more powerful than power.
You cannot have power if there is no light.
But people seem to think it's the other way that we have power because we have light.
That's not the way it works.
Georgia Power wants you to think that's the way it works.
But if we look at science and history, you have to have light before you can have power.
It is light, it is fire, fire, which helps us harness and create power.
You can have light way before you have power.
Light overwhelms power.
Light makes truth the center of everything.
So be careful manifesting light Because you'll see some things you don't want to see You'll lose some people you don't want to lose Because all of a sudden you'll be shining so brightly that they can't handle it Oh Star of wonder
People who manifest light have to be careful who they share it with.
because they will either try to steal it, put it out, dim it, or call it their own.
See, I told you latest contagious.
Did you hear that?
Did you repeat it?
Okay.
I told you latest contagious and I told you latest contagious, which is true.
But sometimes the contagion is because they're going to steal it.
That's what I'm doing.
They're going to steal it.
They're going to what?
Demit.
Make it their own.
King Herod didn't want another king.
And the magi said, the king of the Jews has been born.
Someone more powerful than you, Herod, who's starting to lose.
You're picking fights and losing them.
You are trying to control the people and they are no longer doing what you want them to do, Herod.
You are losing your power.
You're losing your control because light outlasts, outweighs, overcomes power.
It says having been warned in a dream not to return to Herod, they left for their own country by another road.
Hear this and hear this clearly.
Hear the word of the Lord, not of Pastor Jasmine.
Hear the word of the Lord clearly.
When you manifest light,
Be prepared to get ghosted.
You know what that means?
See?
When you manifest light, be prepared for people who said they were your friend, not to be your friend anymore.
Be prepared to lose some things.
Be prepared to protect some things because people steal.
And the enemy comes to still kill and what?
Destroy.
And the last thing the enemy wants you to have is light.
Be prepared to lose that job.
If you lose it because you're bearing the light of Jesus Christ, there's another one right behind it.
Do not be afraid.
Be prepared to lose that long-term friend who's like, ooh, you've become all like churchy now.
Hallelujah.
Bless you.
Go on your way.
Be prepared not to go back to the same places you used to go and to do the things you used to do because God is indeed in the transformation business.
He will move you from your own house and move you from your old friends and move you from your old way of life.
Stop holding on to old stuff.
Stop holding on to dead stuff.
Stop holding on to stuff that God has been trying to pry out of your hands.
Let it go so that you might arise and shine.
The light has come.
Manifest it.
In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit we pray.
Amen.